the cars are supposed to follow:


Definitions:

A) Future Trajectory: The future trajectory of a car is calculated as a distance equal to TRAJECTORY_LENGTH times the car’s length, 
projected along its planned path (straight or turning) based on its current speed and direction. The trajectory is represented as the 
car’s bounding box extended over this distance.

B) TRAJECTORY_LENGTH: A configurable parameter (e.g., 2, 3, or 5 car lengths) that determines the length of the trajectory checked for overlaps.

C) MAX_ACCELERATION: The maximum deceleration rate (in m/s²) a car can use to stop. Cars must maintain a speed such that they can stop within the 
TRAJECTORY_LENGTH distance without exceeding MAX_ACCELERATION.

Road Types:
Elliptical Road: The main road with priority in crossroad scenarios.
Vertical Road: The side road with lower priority.


Rule 1: Same Lane or Same Turn If the future trajectory (length = TRAJECTORY_LENGTH × car length) overlaps with another car’s sprite in the same lane ahead or performing the same turn ahead:Gradually slow down and stop if necessary.
Maintain a gap of at least 0.5 car lengths but no more than 1 car length to the car ahead when stopped.
Adjust speed to ensure the car can stop within the TRAJECTORY_LENGTH distance without exceeding MAX_ACCELERATION, using the formula:\text{Max Speed} = \sqrt{2 \times \text{MAX_ACCELERATION} \times \text{TRAJECTORY_LENGTH} \times \text{Car Length}}
This rule has the highest priority and is checked before all other rules.

Rule 2: Crossroad Overlap - If the future trajectory (length = TRAJECTORY_LENGTH × car length) overlaps with another car’s sprite at a crossroad and the car is changing direction or merging:

2.1. On Vertical Road (Side Road):
2.1.1. Turning Right (Clockwise):If the trajectory overlaps with a car on the elliptical road driving in clockwise direction, stop at the stopping point and wait until the overlap disappears.
2.1.2. Turning Left (Counterclockwise): If the trajectory overlaps with a car on the elliptical road in either direction, stop at the stopping point and wait until the overlap disappears.


2.2. On Elliptical Road (Main Road):
2.2.1. Turning Left to Vertical Road: If the trajectory overlaps with a car driving in the opposite direction on the inner elliptical road, stop at the stopping point and wait until the overlap disappears.
2.2.2. Turning Right to Vertical Road: If the trajectory overlaps with a car currently navigating the crossroad inside the vertical road, stop at the stopping point and wait until the overlap disappears.
2.2.3. Continuing Straight: Apply Rule 1 to check for overlaps in the same lane or turn on the elliptical road.


Speed Constraint:When approaching a crossroad, adjust speed to ensure the car can stop at the stopping point within the TRAJECTORY_LENGTH distance without exceeding MAX_ACCELERATION, using the formula above.




when the car decides to yield, it should stop at this point:
-When it drives on the outer elliptical road and is turning left, it should stop right before its bounding box intersects the inner lane of the elliptical road.
-When it drives on the vertical road, it should stop at the point where the front part of the car sprite aligns with the innermost circle of the ellipse.

Once the car crosses this point, it has right-of-way over cross-traffic until it finishes the turn. However, it must still obey Rule 1 and yield to any cars directly ahead of it in its target lane. If the car is making a turn at the intersection, it must slow down so that it is always able to stop at the stopping point without exceeding MAX_ACCELERATION.


Future Trajectory Visualisation:
Visualize predicted trajectories for each car by drawing an occupancy lane (area that the car sprite will occupy in the future) with 10% transparency of this color:

If the trajectory does not change roads, draw it in green.

If the trajectory starts on the elliptical road and follows a left turn to the vertical road, draw it in blue.

If the trajectory starts on the elliptical road and follows a right turn to the vertical road, draw it in cyan.

If the trajectory starts on the vertical road and follows a right turn to the elliptical road, draw it in yellow.

If the trajectory starts on the vertical road and follows a left turn to the elliptical road, draw it in red.
